content/blog/on-distractions/index.md, before:

---
title: On distractions
date: "2020-03-25T15:29:10.003Z"
description: "My solution to deal with distractions."
draft: true
---

I constantly struggle with what I consider to be "distractions" or "time-wasters" but, no matter how hard I try to control them - I fail. I frequently check for messages, Instagram, HN, Reddit, local news websites and many more. I might be lost jumping on from one blog post to another.

Here are some of the tools that I use (or used in the past) on my Mac to limit my behavior and boost productivity: [Qbserve](https://qotoqot.com/qbserve/), [Focus](https://heyfocus.com/), [Motion](https://www.inmotion.app/), [SelfControl](https://selfcontrolapp.com/). For the iPhone, I use built-in "Screen Time" and "Downtimes". I also use Web content restrictions to block frequently used websites.

Even with such limitations I quickly adjust behavior to bypass blocked content or I come up with new time-wasters. I fail and that failure makes me feel miserable.

I gave up and lost confidence until recently I started working on an interesting side project which consumed most of my free time. In fact, it consumed most of my distraction times too! I was not picking up the phone that much and I was not wondering on the web to amuse myself. I felt happy.

So, I come to the conclusion that restrictions do not work well and if you are like me, finding something worthwhile, something you enjoy more than distractions will probably solve your problem too.

Commit message:

changes on the first post

content/blog/on-distractions/index.md, after:

---
title: On distractions
date: 2020-03-25T15:29:10.003Z
description: And how to deal with them.
published: true
---

I constantly struggle with what I consider to be "distractions" or "time-wasters" but, no matter how hard I try to control them - I fail. I frequently check for messages, Instagram, HN, Reddit, local news websites and more.

Here are some (but not a complete list of) tools that I used to limit distractions and improve productivity: [SelfControl](https://alternativeto.net/software/selfcontrol/), [Qbserve](https://alternativeto.net/software/qbserve/). For the mobile, I use "Downtimes" and [block access](https://www.imore.com/how-block-specific-websites-being-accessed-safari-iphone-and-ipad) to frequently visited websites.

Even with such limitations I quickly adjust my behavior to bypass blocked content or I come up with new time-wasters. I fail and that failure makes me feel miserable.

I gave up and lost control until recently I started working on an interesting side project which consumed my free time and in fact, it consumed most of my distraction time too! I was not interrupting my work by picking up the phone (that often) and I was not wondering on the web to amuse myself. That felt good.

So, I come to the conclusion that **restrictions do not work** and if you are like me, finding something worthwhile which does not necessarily have to be "productive work", something you enjoy more than distractions will eventually solve your problem.
